My name is Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here
in Hong Kong. You're watching the China
show. I'm Yvonne Man with David Ingles.
Uh we are cutting down to the open of
markets in greater China this Monday.
Let's get to your top stories today. A
extremely cautious start across markets
today, December of course first [music]
trading session. Uh you had factory
activity coming out of China on the
weekend contracting for a record [music]
eighth month. We get a private gauge
later this hour.
>> China's food delivery wars see Meituan
posting its first loss in almost 3 years
and a warning of further damage to come
from [music] the battle with Alibaba and
jd.com.
>> Also had China's property crisis in
focus [music] as time cuts latest woes
pressure off for bonds. A delay to
monthly sales data adding to some of the
uncertainty out there. And as [music]
Hong Kong mourns its fire victims, the
government is warning of action against
anyone deemed
to be stoking unrest.
Right. Uh we're looking at some declines
across these equity markets as we kick
off a
fresh trading month, fresh trading week.
We're down about a third of 1%. We are
getting some
fairly hefty fret pressure coming
through across US futures. Not normally
moving a lot, not to the extent at least
we're seeing currently uh for this time
of the session. Uh we're looking at a
lot of data coming through. We'll recap
some of the PMI numbers we get uh from a
whole slew of uh Asian economies uh
about 30 minutes back. Uh we had the
gauge of course coming out of China. We
have a private gauge coming out this
hour. Uh on top of all that, other
things on deck, risk aversion out there
7/10 of 1%. Uh on the Korean market.
Right. Um dollar US two-year yields were
fully priced now
uh for the Fed meeting which is in about
10 11 days or so. Uh as it pertains to
Japan also on the monetary policy front,
we now have a 1% handle for the first
time in many many many years on the
two-year yield. Uh we are expecting to
hear from the central bank governor
anytime now. We'll bring you the latest
there once we have more information
there. Uh focus specifically on metals
today. Silver and especially copper with
both in fact now trading at record
highs. Uh so we're looking at copper
futures as well in Shanghai coming up on
your screens very shortly. That should
see a follow-through move following the
move in London on the LME at least uh
11:03 right now on copper there. Uh the
China one is coming online. Bitcoin
obviously is pulling back 4.2%.
I should also point out this broad wave
of risk aversion was something we did
not specifically wake up to and it
certainly just the caught somewhat
momentum in the last 60 minutes or so.
Um A50 futures coming on your screens.
Dollar China 200 week moving average.
We'll get you a chart on that in a
moment, but there we go. Um
that's not the copper contract, but yes,
we'll talk about the copper contract a
bit later. And it's still a commodity.
Anyway, um let's have a look at other
things on deck today. Well, as you
mentioned, I don't think we were
foreseeing this sort of risk aversion,
right? When we were talking about
December was supposed to be that month
where where things are looking better
and that just pulled back in November
was maybe just a one-off. And now you're
talking about the macros weakening
again. When you take a look at the China
PMI number and the eighth straight month
of weakness that we've seen, you pair
that with the Meituan earnings, you got
to wonder have we actually seen the peak
of the intensity of these e-commerce
price wars?
>> Yeah, you know, I'll throw in the the
the resurgence of the property
>> Wanka, yeah.
>> of the bank line of property woes,
right? You you
So we know a big part of the economy
isn't doing well and that's really shown
up in the earning story, right? The big
tech plays that have a very big
component to sort of B2B like Alibaba,
the cloud business is doing well, but
the B2C business, Meituan is almost
purely a B2C business.
It's really showed up in the form of
earnings. Uh so that's really something
that we'll see today and of course
Meituan will be getting first reaction
uh to the earnings coming through uh
today. Uh on top of that, uh monetary
policy, that's just to say we're we we
mentioned this, we're up 1% likely. Is
that going to be a rate hike out of the
BOJ? Uh if not December, it's January of
course. Now we're fully priced as far as
the uh the Fed is concerned in a couple
of days now. Yep, and we are seeing
right now it seems like the Bank of
Japan Governor Ueda is speaking in
Nagoya. So we'll bring you any sort of
updates in case uh we do see that as
well. In terms of your agenda for
greater China today, so we talked about
of course the currency moves that we've
seen when it comes to dollar China, the
200 week moving average is certainly one
thing to watch very closely here. We
have the rating dog China PMI number
coming out in the bottom of this hour as
well. Still watching what's going on
with Wanka, uh property bonds as well.
We've been talking about some key sort
of milestones that were hit here and
we're watching those high yield spreads
very closely. We talked about Meituan.
Uh
when it comes to Jiangxi Copper, there's
a takeover uh sort of bid that they're
talking about here as well. And Li Auto
as well we're focusing on. Um the
property side certainly is still the
struggling one that we're watching very
closely in terms of follow-up from
Wanka. Uh and of course casino revenue
from Macau, that's happening in
November. The November numbers I should
say are happening later on today as
well. Yeah. Uh also retail sales out of
Hong Kong. Uh so yeah, lots to discuss
going into the session today. Uh let's
start things off with the earning story
and the reason perhaps this is on taking
on slightly more significance, it's
really a reflection of a really a weak
and soft spot uh of the Chinese economy,
right? Meituan's first loss in since
2022. Red bar is that operating loss
that almost 100% jump from this time
last year of operating expenses
underscores this intense competition
that the company itself alluded to uh
during the earnings release. Let's bring
in Catherine Lim, our Bloomberg
Intelligence senior analyst, joins us
from Singapore today. Catherine, good
morning. Your first thoughts um when you
had a look at these earnings coming
through.
Yeah, morning. And really I think um
other than the loss, one thing that
stood out for me was that this was the
first time that Meituan actually
reported local core local commerce
revenues declined of 3% and that really
goes to show that it lost market share
in the food delivery sector that
contributed to the loss. I guess the
reality is that they've guided on the
loss. Um it didn't quite surprise me
that you know it was steeper than
expected. And I think market was already
expecting the losses to continue in
fourth quarter. But you know, as they've
highlighted, the competition is still
intense. And you know, the rash how
rational it is going to be, they weren't
able to actually really give um you
know, visibility or clarity to that. And
really it all goes down to you know, how
the market sentiment's going to be. And
to what you've also highlighted um you
know, earlier um David, Yvonne, that the
underlying consumption sentiment in
China is still fairly weak. So that
really clouds the whole outlook in 2026.
And that's going to take a hit um you
know, on the stock today.
Uh Catherine, the consensus expectations
are still for a turnaround for 2026. Do
you think that's still feasible at this
point or is that going to have to be
revised lower now?
I think the question really is that you
know, what is the magnitude of that
turnaround that we should be expecting
in 2026? Is this a prolonged pain that
we have seen in other sectors as well,
not to name them. And um you know, the
question is we know that they're not
going to go back to you know, the 18% um
operating margins that they've done in
the past, but is it um fair to say that
it's going to half or is it going to be
worse than that as Meituan you know,
looks very determined to try to maintain
their leadership in food delivery.
All right. Catherine, thank you.
Catherine Lim there, Bloomberg
Intelligence senior analyst, breaking
down those Meituan earnings for us. And
still ahead, we're going to take a
closer look at China's tech sector as
the AI wars heat up. We're going to hear
why Barclays' Jean Xiao sees no bubble
in the next few years predicting strong
progress in the likes of Alibaba and
Tencent.
Yeah, suffice it to say we'll also get
his thoughts on Meituan if that
>> [laughter]
>> that that that wasn't obvious right now.
102 Hong Kong dollars a pop right now
going into the open today. Maybe not. We
won't be taking out the 100, but we'll
see of course when things open here
um this Monday. Right. Uh now our first
guest on the show is today thinks that
China's tech sector, speaking of the
broader theme, stands out as a top
global opportunity going into next year.
Joining us here on set, Eva Lee, head of
greater China equities at UBS Global
Wealth Management Chief Investment
Office. Hope you're well. Let's start
off on tech. We now have done with the
earnings. This is a really good
opportunity you guys think. Tell tell
tell us why.
Well, uh
the result actually confirmed that the
AI developments of China is actually
exceed people's expectation. Like what I
meant is not about CAPEX. I think the
US tech developments clearly telling you
that is amount is not about how much you
spend. It's about about how much you
eventually can generate in terms of
revenue. So if you look at the time lag
between investments versus monetization,
China actually have been doing better
than that of US if I were really have to
be strictly comparing. Because
remember in the second quarter results,
Tencent some of the leading portals
already telling us how they use AI and
generate better advertising revenues,
how they use AI to generate to help them
in the gaming development. You know, all
these um I think it's crucial nowadays
moving forward. It's not about like we
still have the CAPEX spending. I know
that one of the companies telling you
that we have to revise down our third
quarter or full year capex in AI in
chips in particular because China is
still, you know, restricted in terms of
importing chips from US, but this stats
that alone, they they another companies
are telling you that, okay, this is our
three-year budget. We able to
spend it earlier than what we expect.
So, I think this is important that capex
spending, okay, so broadly in line, but
monetizations is actually far exceed
people expectation. I think that's key
message. And the way that AI plays out
regionally is very different, right? You
talk about chips, it's it's Korea, it's
Taiwan, Japan, it's equipment. But
you're saying in China this whole full
stack sort of proposition you say is
more attractive. Yeah. Okay. Because
it's like yes, I mean supply chain is
important, but there is certain level
that China still not able to deliver.
But on the other hand, because the
ecosystem even before AI, they were very
complete. So, there are many AI use
cases or scenario for them to benefited
from. So, I think in I think in US they
do have it as well. Not every single
company have a more. Some have more
comprehensive, some have less. Then you
now see the share price telling you
that. But in China, I think there are
two big ones and maybe actually four big
ones. One is unlisted, all three are
listed.
You sort of see them now, hey, I'm doing
this, I'm working on this. And once
you're on the track, you're only able to
accelerate that because you already find
cases and usage of AI. One of our guests
last week, speaking of the full stack
and the whole supply chain that you have
in China, almost across the board with
some gaps, of course, to to point.
Told us like the bull case seems clear,
but the the research coverage and
sell-side coverage doesn't seem to be as
comprehensive yet. Looking at that full
stack, and I wonder is that a hindrance?
Obviously, we'll get more coverage, but
when you pitch the idea to global
investors, how receptive are they when
you go beyond say the top five names?
I mean, this is totally
understanding because when people talk
about AI, people seems to be just
pointing to two companies. But when you
look at the through supply chain,
exactly what your
speaker saying, there are few of those
actually quite a big part of the supply
chain. I'm talking about doing chips.
They are actually in the not even in CSI
300. They probably in the 500 or some
even in 1,000. But obviously, not all
companies are equal. I mean, there are
some of the good ones that able to
manage to do better and excel. And on
top of that, the valuation, some of
these companies valuations are like 70
times. At one stage was 100 times for
PE.
You like, oh, should I really look into
it? As an analyst,
do should I you know, sort of put in the
effort to
exactly. Well, it will matter, but is it
too early to look at it now? Yeah. So,
can I you mentioned the optimism around
AI. I mean, it seems like the macro is
getting weaker, right? You look at PMI
numbers, you look at what's going on in
the property sector.
Can I still just focus on tech for next
year for this equity rally to continue?
Well, as we always say, the Wall Street
versus Main Street, right?
The weather which side of the world, we
always have this dilemma.
The Main Street, particularly for China,
you cannot have, for example,
consumption continue to be weak and you
expect people would pay this money,
you know, in terms of AI or by product
or like the second derivative of
consumption, you know, being AI. So,
we do need, you know, a better or at
least
you know, some of the structural issue
need to be taken care of eventually. Or
else, you know, purely relying on tech
without the macroeconomy
not doing well, it doesn't work. The one
of the recommendations for the 2026
outlook is allocate up to 30% of equity
portfolios to something related to AI.
Is there any are there any changes to
how people have been how you've observed
people allocating this year that you
think they should start entertaining as
a new idea going into next year? Or is
it or is it more of the same?
Well, I think in terms of people that
early in the US AI, they'll be quite
concentrated on one company.
Probably. And we now, particularly the
last three months of share price
performance telling you that you should
not do that. Like we already in the
fourth year of the AI development US,
diversification is crucial.
And now you have not just GP, you have
TP. You have different AI big model. The
usage, the applications are very
different. I think same case of China.
You also need to think about how you
diversified. And you maybe the timing,
like now maybe I'm more in gaming
because I worry about the food delivery
platforms still going to spend more
money. You know, that sort of
diversification is crucial in 2026.
Are there pockets that of the tech space
that you worry about? I mean, I think
last week it was the regulators that
said humanoid robots, they actually see
that space being, you know, a little bit
too crowded. Are there parts that you
look at be like, this I worry about
this?
Whenever
we are approaching a new sort of
technology, humanoid is a good example.
You always come to a stage that whether
this company can survive. Okay, they
talk about okay, 100
robotic robots being delivered this year
and then 10,000 next year. You know,
that sort of jump.
It how's the
sort of the entry barrier? Is it like
hearing the all the nice story, it's
easy, but if you sort of take in deep
into whether you really have the edge
and you are able to stop the new
entrance coming in, I think that's
crucial. We always come into a stage
that there are too many entrance and
only one or two able to survive.
We'll have more evenly, of course, will
be rejoining us in a couple of minutes
there.
She's been of course been UBS Global
Wealth Chief Investment Office. Just to
also mention, we just talked about
Meituan as a starting point there.
Yeah, we spoke a little bit too early.
We after a couple of minutes, it does
seem we will be trading if not at, we'll
be below 100 Hong Kong dollars right
now. So, we are indicated lower.
Speaking of the 90s, that's also the
level to watch when you look at copper
in Shanghai.
We're just getting warmed up and we're
now an inch or two from that 90,000
handle on the back of copper hitting a
record, of course. Metals, [music] of
course, is something we're tracking
going into the recession.
>> We're counting down the open of trade in
Shanghai, [music] Shenzhen and Hong Kong
on this Monday morning. This is the
China show.
Welcome back. We'll take you straight
now to
>> [music]
>> to Japan, where we are getting an
ongoing live briefing out of the BOJ.
Suffice to say the comments that have
come out so far are largely on the
hawkish side. Nothing out of a complete
vacuum, of course, but an indication
that rates will likely head higher.
Acknowledgement that real rate is very
low. A hike would be an adjustment to a
degree of easing.
And if the economy outlook is realized,
then the BOJ will be raising interest
rates. Just to also say that the yen has
strengthened since those comments
dropped, and the two-year yield is now
at about 1% for the first time, I
believe, since since 2000. And it's
something to keep an eye on. Yeah, and
the fact that he mentioned, right? FX is
more likely to affect prices than
before. The weakness in the currency is
certainly one thing that, you know, they
are concerned about possibly stoking
inflation
further than already is. So, you know,
directly talking about the currency
impacts that could have. But yeah, he
says he's going to make the right
decision when it comes to rates in that
December meeting as well. But still, I
think I mean, I asked some of the
economists, they're still kind of maybe
it's a bit of a coin toss at what point
what they're going to do in December.
But December and January certainly are
live. And you're seeing that reflected
in markets. So, there you go. The yield
curve is heading higher here this
morning. The two-year yield 1.01
there. And certainly we're watching that
very closely what happens there. BOJ, of
course, meets
later on this week.
Tell me a little bit more about Hong
Kong. Yeah. And obviously, we've been
dealing with a lot of mourning and and
the like here over the weekend. The
government has moved to stamp out
mounting public anger at the city's
deadliest fire in nearly eight decades.
The last week's disaster in the Tai Po
district killed at least 146 people.
Let's get to our Minnie Lo, our China
correspondent, with the latest so far.
Yeah, the latest was, if you remember
last week, I was at this distribution
center that was started by volunteers.
And we heard that on Saturday, on
Saturday the authorities had told them
to clear out of the square. The
government is kind of taking over that
donation drive and taking it online
saying that they will make it more
efficient. But you got to take this in
context of the other things happening as
well because the office for national
security had put out a warning against
anybody trying to use this fire to stoke
unrest and endanger national security.
And already they had arrested three
people on those grounds, including an
unidentified volunteer, a former
district councilor Kenneth Chong, as
well as one man who started an online
petition making four demands of the
government including taking care of the
victims, taking accountability for what
happened, starting an independent
commission of inquiry. Um and an
Instagram page that raised the four
demands has now been taken down. So
suddenly it seems like that line between
public grief and public anger is
thinning and perhaps the government is
worried that that
I guess you could consider it a mass
gathering of people at the distribution
center. They're worried that maybe that
could spiral into something that is out
of control. But do we have new details
on how
uh the fire started? Yes. So uh last
week the government gave a press
conference and they said that the fire
started with the green mesh. Um and they
now say that based on preliminary
testing the mesh did in fact uh meet
regulatory standards when it comes to
fire resistance. And they're now putting
the blame on the Styrofoam boards that
are sealing the windows saying that that
really caused the windows to shatter
which then caused the fire to move
inside the building. So it was spreading
both outside and inside the buildings.
And the fire department explained why
they didn't use the helicopter water
bomb saying that that would douse the
exterior of the buildings but at the
same time the the powerful downdraft
will just create more oxygen and fuel
the spread of the fire even further. So
now there are still speculation about
how exactly the fire started. Some
people are saying, you know, were
workers smoking. We still don't know and
an interagency task force has been
started to look into the exact cause and
also what caused the fire to spread so
rapidly.
And and we [clears throat] continue to
watch of course the the very touching
photos of people lining up and you know
really putting out flowers and mourning
really for the whole week. It was a
quite a quite a show of support that we
continue to Yeah, we saw thousands of
people lining up to give flowers. There
were people holding up signs to say that
they are giving out free hugs. And of
course the Hong Kong government has
declared three days of public public
mourning right and they had set up
condolence points across the city. Um
and we saw just really raw sort of
devastation at the site because there
was this place where family members
could go in to identify the dead based
on photos and you see this terrible
procession of people coming out just
looking completely anguished. And I
think the past couple of couple of days,
you know, these people have been very
dazed and very shocked. And you know,
you could very well over the first
couple of days be quite at a loss. And
you know, looking at the distribution
center there, within 72 hours it's gone.
By the time you've sort of, you know,
are clear about, okay, this are maybe I
need to go get some supplies, you know,
those things are just gone by now.
Um and clearly it seems like, you know,
that I think many of the volunteers are
also upset that their goodwill is now
being scrutinized for other, you know,
political intentions as well. What what
what's next to watch here today in the
next few days?
Well, I think the next few days, of
course, we we're entering a political
period right because we have the legis
legislative council election taking
place.
>> That is Well, John Lee said he will
announce if it's going to be delayed but
as far as we understand based on
sources, they understand that it is
still going to take place on Sunday. So
the public campaigning has been
suspended for about a week. They are
likely to resume on Thursday.
And obviously this incident is going to
cast a shadow over the elections because
this is the second election that will
take place under the patriots only uh
sort of electoral system that Beijing
has imposed. Um and of course
the government and Beijing in particular
will be watching for how the election is
going to take place. And of course we
have seen police security uh really
ramped up at the site near the fire as
well. Um and I think this is something
that will definitely be casting a shadow
over the elections.
Mandy Mandy Thank Thank Thank Thanks for
the update. Yeah, we're just coming off
challenging weekend. Extremely hard to
just try and not be connected to the
news and then just
>> I also wanted to point out that there
has been reports that show that these
residents were
complaining about these fire hazards
early on as early as last year. And the
Department of Labor did acknowledge in a
statement that they had wrongly
dismissed some of these concerns and
initially said that there wasn't any
fire safety law governing um scaffolding
but eventually later on they said that
uh the materials actually met the
standards citing documents from the
contractors but now they have increased
the number of arrests uh to 11 including
more contractors uh and consultants of
different companies as well.
Mandy Mandy Yeah. Thank you. Uh Mandy
Mandy with an update there of the
developments over the weekend into where
we are right now. Mandy Mandy when you
look at uh this story as we make our way
of course [music] into uh into uh into a
new week here. Uh you're watching the
China Show. Plenty more ahead.
>> [music]
>> You're watching the China Show counting
down to the open of your cash markets.
Hang Seng Index slightly higher. A50
futures also to the upside [music] here.
Some strength coming through in the
Chinese currency which isn't new. In
fact, at 7:06 right now you have to do a
do a weekly
do a 200-day moving average and you see
[music] we're sitting right at about the
level.
Uh we also just happen to be sitting on
a level. I think it's a fibo retracement
from the trough to peak
in the last [music] 5 years or so. We're
right at the 50% retracement level as
far as that trade is concerned. It's
just to say of course [music] it's
really been a weak dollar story and
maybe a a bit across this equity market.
It's not all because we're looking at
some earnings reaction too coming
through. The Fed is in a blackout period
now. So certainly we're not going to get
much more in terms of the Fed
uncertainty but as [music] Dave
mentioned, right? It's nearly priced in
that they're going to cut uh this month.
So certainly that's going to be the key
thing to watch here in terms of your
mainland markets. This is what the open
for your Monday morning is looking like
here. We continue to see some moderate
gains here for the CSI 300. We're up
about a third of 1%. Uh we're watching
of course of the commodities as as as
Dave mentioned there. Silver's at a
record high. Copper certainly has seen
those gains uh in some of these mainland
futures. We're up about 2 and 1/2% uh
for copper as well. And we're focusing a
little bit more on what happens when it
comes to the tech space given what we
saw with those Meituan earnings.
Certainly last week I think it was
Alibaba which had a little bit more of
the spotlight back on them after
announcing of course this Gwen app and
then this whole kind of new smart
glasses that revived the stock a little
bit. Look at the boards and see how Hong
Kong is doing. Capricorn meanwhile is
down about 8/10 of 1% in terms of the
chip space here this morning. But today
is really about Meituan and we are
seeing when it comes to the sell side
they are continuing to slash their price
targets uh for the stock. The likes of
Goldman, uh Citi and the like. Uh
Meituan is there you go, down 2 and 1/2%
here. We're now at that 100 level.
Recording the first loss since 2022.
They mentioned the fourth quarter
guidance was also going to be weak as
well. So they see still see losses when
it comes to of course the e-commerce
business and the like. Alibaba is doing
okay, continuing to extend those gains
here. Tencent is doing okay as well. So
we're going to take from Barclays on the
whole tech sector just coming up. Uh but
as Eva Lee from UBS told us, right? Tech
is going to be that key driver for this
equity rally here for next year. Despite
the weak macro data, right? PMI numbers
that we saw an eighth straight month of
contraction when it comes to
manufacturing. That certainly is one
thing. The non-services side also didn't
look that good either, also in
contraction. So the macros are getting
weaker.
But then again, we also get the private
gauge coming out in just a few minutes.
We'll break those once you do. In terms
of the consumption space, we're focusing
on that. There was a lot of optimism
last week about this consumption plan
that could lift the likes of the Pop
Marts. You know, these collectible dolls
could help boost the consumption space
in some ways. Pop Mart continues to head
higher there. Uh but the the price has
been or at least the stock has been cut
to a hold uh from Deutsche Bank with a
price target around 228. So just similar
current levels right now.
I'm watching CATL. Those A shares have
been raised to overweight at JP Morgan.
Uh Baidu is not doing too much. Weibo
not really either. Uh but we're still
focusing on Wanda Co. So they basically
have pledged their entire stake
in its management unit to a state
backer, Shenzhen Metro Group as well. So
this is what we're hearing in terms of
part of this framework that allows
Shenzhen Metro to demand collateral or
pledges from Wanda Co for its loan
support. The stock not doing a whole lot
here today. Wanda Wo
Yeah. or Wanda Wo um
as as as the character. Uh yeah, you
know, actually showed up in the news. It
showed up in markets last week. I think
the high yield offshore gauge had its
worst week in over 2 years last week on
aggregate. So we'll we'll see how those
bonds trade going into the session today
but that's also to say that we're
continuing to track the story and as you
want us pointing out, right? Pledging
the company pledging all of the shares
it holds in the listed property
management unit to Shenzhen Metro. Uh
Trista is here with us to take us
through the latest. What do we do about
the specific move coming out of the
company?
So this move to pledge the shares not
surprising cuz we already mentioned that
uh it's part of framework that allow
Shenzhen Metro as biggest shareholder
to, you know, ask for collateral um
pledge for its loan support. Um and we
also already see, you know, Vanke
started to pledge the share uh on this
property uh management uh listed company
starting from, you know, February this
year. So the move to pledge the share is
not surprising at all
definitely underscore that, you know, uh
Shenzhen Metro as biggest shareholder is
definitely tightening its financing
terms and you can never, you know, take
the support from its biggest shareholder
for granted right now.
Okay.
What are we expecting this week from
Wanda if anything?
Yeah, of course. We are waiting for the
bond extension details and we are
waiting for it to land maybe as early as
this morning. So, I think that's planned
everyone the whole market is watching
for that because that will set a stage
about how you know, Wanda would deal
with its yuan bond moving forward and
that's the key thing we're watching. And
then for next week Wanda will have a
meeting with its bond holder onshore to
discuss about the
you know, the yuan bond extension
proposal and if they cannot get the
support which is a bit unlikely, but if
they cannot get the support it will be a
default.
All right. Trista, thank you Trista Luo
there our China credit reporter on the
latest when it comes to Wanda. So, lots
to look ahead to as early as today as
she signaled there. We're also seeing
what we didn't see was you know, Not yet
though.
>> Usually this time around is during the
end of the month is when you get that
you know, the private gauge of the
property data out of the the biggest
kind of developers in China. We we
didn't get that yesterday. We're already
in December 1st. So, we're still waiting
for what that means about our very own
Christie Hong says this only adds the
uncertainty of what you know, the
November print would look like and she
foresees that could be actually be a
pretty weak number. Yeah, again that's
not to say it won't come out, but it's
usually out at the last
>> End of the month. Yeah, so we'll we'll
continue to track our headlines once we
have more information, but will fuel
uncertainty according to according to
Christie. So, with us here on set for
some final thoughts Eva Lee head of
greater China equities at UBS Global
Wealth Management Chief Investment
Office. Are there opportunities within
the consumption space in China that you
think
are we throwing everything out with the
bathwater?
Within consumption we actually like new
consumption theme. You know, the the
popular stuff the popular toys
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. It has corrected a lot.
I think I remember now it's talking
about 20 times 20 something times for a
PR
and earnings growth is 25% KKR.
When I look at the stock, yes, I mean
the domestic growth is important, but in
fact the growth in overseas people might
have neglected is actually have been
progressing very well.
Some of your friends in I don't know in
US and Europe probably will tell you
that people lined up for toys at the
shop. So, I think this will be an
important element that will support the
growth of the stock or the company in
the coming you know, particularly in
2026 or 2027 because the margins from
selling in overseas actually is a lot
higher compared to selling in China.
Somehow they're able to market at a
much higher price.
How do you look at 2026? I mean it
seemed like this year was all about
valuations. That's what really kind of
led to this rally. How critical will
earnings be this this this next year?
Let's
talk about you know, the tech sector
because of the subsidies and you talk
about one of the companies having loss.
Next year because of this low base 2026
our tech earnings expect to be over 35%
growth. This is a bit of low base.
And also because within the Hang Seng
tag is also include the EVs and also the
the semi. So, they do have a bit of you
know, so earnings growth. But in terms
of broader market we expect 12 to 13%.
So, earnings growth will be from this
year I think 2% 3% for us overall China.
Next year 13%. So, the earnings need to
come into place answering your
questions. Obviously valuation has
corrected lately because of people
taking profit people you know, worry
about the Ming Street, but we do expect
both valuation now it's I think slightly
at par to historical average. So, we
have earnings growth coming in with a
maybe a little bit of earnings
re-rating, but I mean the easy upside
was this year because it's just
re-rating. Remember the beginning of the
year we were at high low teens in terms
of overall China. Now we are at 17
times. That easy move you know, has
done. Yeah, and
I mean the earnings have to start.
The title of the report is escape
velocity question mark still. You're not
convinced yet that we've it seems with
UBS not convinced that I think there are
different pockets that will be moving
around and as I said, I mean when people
would really focus on one stock on in
one sector
you'll be you know, surprised that there
will be different pockets of development
moving. So, you got to change you got to
you know, sort of monitor you know, the
situation. For example, we like gold a
lot. We still like gold, but it has
moved. So, we need to think about you
know, why you need to have that as a
hedging. 5% of people who follow need to
have to be in gold because the
geopolitical situation. Yes, I know
trade truce is here, but it doesn't mean
that it's all peace, right? We all
understand they're going to meet four
times next year the two big leaders, but
the discussion is not ended here.
It's just going to be continued and I I
eat the volatility will still be here.
Yeah, in terms of the risks you guys
highlight if AI progress slows, if
inflation picks up again, or if debt
problems resurface. Which which are the
three
you know, concerns you the most?
Um
I think would be the AI.
Yeah, because people put a high hope at
the moment. And what's the what's the
initial
indication that that's slowing? Is that
a lower capex number?
Is it a is it a blowing up of one of the
higher multiples?
Okay.
And at the moment you know, we have been
hearing that
like for example, the China way of AI is
a lot cheaper than US type of AI.
Obviously with these two different
regions I don't think they would
eventually they won't you know, there
will be two systems. But would that be
any arbitrage between them eventually?
We don't know. I think that that's
something that we need to understand,
but it's not probably 2026 story. It
might be 27 story. Okay.
Hold that thought. We have a little bit
more news when it comes to Wanda. So,
apparently one of those yuan bonds has
been halted once again after a price
drop here. So, we'll continue to track
this one. This is the 3.64%
yuan bond here.
You know, obviously we'll continue to
what I mean today is when we possibly we
get the details of this kind of yuan
bond extension, right? So, certainly
we'll see the markets are still pressing
the sell button as we speak.
Eva, let me get your take on this. I
mean everyone is saying that the
property market is still struggling.
Maybe it's forcing it will have to
eventually force the government to
implement some stimulus. Should we
expect any sort of stimulus in the
property sector? Well, I think there's a
high chance that there I think the
market is talking about it like mortgage
subsidy. Which
obviously probably partly will be coming
from
the government and maybe partly from
banks,
but net net it's this is more of a I
don't think it can continue for the
entire mortgage term to be honest. But
maybe a year or two year, but it will be
it will help. That having said that we
still expect 2026
in terms of China property market in
terms of prices in particular and
volumes still will continue to correct.
The I mean markets don't they don't like
surprises, disruption, but if it's a
known risk like this it's been we've
been here for several years now. Do you
think if this continues into next year
as you've just outlined for us there,
does that cause do you see any way that
this can cause a disruption in the
equity market specifically to the rally
that we're seeing or can those two
things continue to to coexist like they
did this year? Put that way. If it turn
around and stabilize, this will be the
best story for China
consumption.
I mean this is at the moment like we
don't need it to go back to the good old
days. We only needed to stabilize. So,
when the October data coming in to be a
lot weaker and then the sales continue
to you know, sort of decline even in
tier one cities, that actually makes me
more really worry because
at the end of the day they still have I
don't know one or two or even three
properties.
They haven't been able to sell that if
majority of people haven't. That will
still affect the sentiment, right? I
think this is crucial for consumption.
Eva, great to have you here this hour.
Eva Lee head of greater China equities
at UBS Global Wealth Management Chief
Investment Office. Of course, we'll
leave you with a look at how markets are
doing here right now. We [music] are
seeing when it comes to yeah, greater
China markets doing quite well. Hang
Seng is up 6/10 of 1% CSI 300 above that
4,500 level here. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> All right, we just want to recap the PMI
numbers that we got over the weekend
here and yeah, it wasn't pretty. We're
talking about an eight straight month of
contraction for the manufacturing floor
here. That is a record losing streak. Of
course, the non-manufacturing also
looking a bit softer at 49.5 also
signaling contraction as well. So, yeah,
we got the the rating dollar private
gauge coming out any second now, Dave.
>> Uh it it has come out, and the reading
is not good. It missed forecasts quite
substantially. We also are getting a sub
50 handle on the rating dog uh PMI. Uh
this is again also for the same month,
uh 49.9, and we're back below 50 for the
first time in in several months. So,
clearly, we've hit a cyclical headwind
mm uh in in this economy as we close out
the year here. Uh let's get the take
from Eva Yi, chief economist at Huatai
Securities. She joins us from Beijing
here this morning. Eva, uh you know, it
seems like the the weakness of the of
the economy we're seeing reflected in
these numbers here right now. What do
you think is contributing to these
numbers?
Yeah, um November manufacturing PMI only
uptick um
20 bips to 49.2.
This is a pretty weak recovery, I would
say. Um it's in line, won't call it
strong. I think a lot of it was seasonal
recovery because November October has
many less working days this October.
People take time off, take a 12-day
holiday during a national holiday. So,
we I think market was expecting a little
stronger recovery, and didn't happen. I
think a few things are contributing to
it. First of all, uh we do see the you
know, the fiscal expenditure growth
going into the year end. They probably
saving some bullets for next year. So,
fourth quarter this year, uh the
sequential momentum wasn't as strong as
the first half of the year in terms of
fiscal spending. Um but also some other
disruptions or um temporary factors as
well because November this year, we only
have 20 working days, and in the past,
it's usually in the past 10 years, the
average number of working days in
November is 21 to 22 days. So, that
could have uh been a small reason that
PMI was on the weaker side. Last Lastly,
there was continued anti-evolution
efforts on on the industry level, on the
local government level, and that could
have contributed too because we are
seeing price signals on the margin going
better than the volume signals. For
example, we do see a uptick in finished
product price, as well as a more more
noticeable pickup in uh input prices.
Uh Eva, David here. Do I take it then
based on your last thought there that
we're going into next year, and many in
the market are underappreciating the
in- inflation
uh impulse that's starting to come
through, and do do we see that, I guess,
as far as corporate earnings are
concerned? How how are you viewing that
whole scenario?
Uh I would I would describe it as a
moderate recovery, um but it's been
ongoing for a while, actually. If you
look at um the corporate balance sheet,
uh both from the listed company
perspective as well as from the uh NBS
industrial corporate um financial data,
which is monthly, and the the financial
data, we are seeing cash flow in terms
of cash plus current assets as a
percentage uh slowly recovering from
fourth quarter of last year. And the
account receivable days starting to
decline from the first quarter of this
year. And uh we are seeing it including
some of the property companies, we are
seeing the you know, the the balance
sheet contraction for some of the
problematic sectors starting to um slow
down or even stop. Um but this is I I
think uh contributable attributable to
the uh local government debt swap
program and increased fiscal impulse
from fourth quarter of last year that
that improved the cash flow. So, from
the PPI perspective, it has been
narrowing, and uh it the narrowing has
speeded up after anti-evolution kicked
off in July uh this year. We don't see
it as a sort of sort of a very steep
recovery as we saw in 2015 and 16 with
supply side reform. Nevertheless, there
should be some kind of um
um you know, I I we do see the
profitability trend slowly being on the
mend uh for corporate sector.
And we've talked about, you know,
the there is a K-shaped economy, right?
Where you have AI is still looking like
a bright spot. You have exports that are
still resilient. Equity markets are
doing okay this pretty well this this
year. But then again, I I look at what
the property side is doing, I look at
what consumption is doing, and that
still continues to be struggling. What
what do policymakers do, and how do they
address the sort of K-shaped economy
now?
Yeah, I think the K-shaped economy, or
uh sometimes we call it the two-speed
economy, uh
is sort of a global phenomenon now after
COVID and with takeoff of AI, uh US,
China, and a lot of the larger economy
are all experiencing sort of the uh
changing income distribution. Um and if
you look at what's going to happen next
year, uh first of all, I I do think the
government is noticed is taking notes of
um the another leg down in property
sector in terms of um primary market
transaction volume, as well as
first-tier city price catching down in
the past couple of months. So, we do
expect some kind of policy coming
through in terms of targeted um
maybe mortgage rate um subsidy or cut or
um
and  or uh on the city level.
They do call it one city, one policy.
So, on the city level, we are seeing
some cities giving out a monetary
subsidy for home purchase, and we do
expect different cities given uh their
different
circumstances uh also tailor make some
of the incentives for home buyers as
well. And going into next year in the
15th 5-year plan, we do see more
emphasis on consumption growth, and that
could probably lead to more um
in terms of government incentive of
boosting service consumption, and not
the large ticket items we've seen in the
past year.
Yeah, I was actually going to ask you
whether or not in what form do you think
we'll still see the consumer-oriented
subsidies, but I think you answered the
question.
Final one for you, we've seen the
Chinese currency on very strong footing
recently, in fact, 7.06 now. Uh do you
think something's changed as far as the
currency bias is is concerned, Eva? To
what do you put the strength in the
currency?
Well, I do see um the narrative shifting
for the RMB, and now we're almost seeing
sort of a a
reval- I was going to say appreciation
expectation around the RMB. And the RMB
uh from a valuation perspective and
competitive perspective, if you look at
China's exports, and even especially if
you do product by product, it is
extremely competitive. It is on the low
end of valuation. We've seen a very long
stretch of real RMB depreciation, the
longest one, actually, uh since the
1990s, or the actually the largest one
in terms of magnitude since the 1990s.
Extremely competitive. We're just
looking for a catalyst. So, the catalyst
going into the year end could be um the
US dollar softening a little bit from
100 to 99.5. Now, the rate cut is back
in the rate to play. The rate cut is
back into the play. Also, towards the
year end, people are expecting maybe uh
some of the um you know, conversion back
into RMB to it to for Chinese New Year
in terms of cash flow as well. So,
there's some catalysts brewing, but we
do see the uh appreciation speeding up
going forward. Sorry.
Eva, yeah, Eva, sorry. Uh we're out of
time. Thank you so much though for
[music] that. Chief Economist at Huatai
Securities. Plenty more ahead. This is
the China Show.
Welcome back to the China Show. Here's a
look at the HSI half hour into the
session, and we are hovering on those
session highs here, seeing
>> [music]
>> gains about 1%. This rally seems to have
gained a bit more traction here in the
last couple of [music] minutes. So,
certainly, that is a good way to start
your Monday morning. Uh we're checking
some of these sort of the the gold the
precious metals in the light that
continue to rally. Copper is also doing
very well here this morning.
>> Yeah, it was a really big move on Friday
into the weekend, and you know what? It
actually continued uh going into this
morning, right? So, silver, I think one
of the first things I saw uh
in on on on late Friday was really this
uh at about this level, right? So,
record of that record on copper. Um I
believe we should also be the highest,
at least my data tells me we're highest
since 1999
uh if we close at this level on copper
in Shanghai. The reason I frame phrase
it that way, I think intraday uh back
about a month and a half ago, October
10, uh we were trading at 91,000 very
briefly on copper. They just say it's
done well, and of course, the some of
the
equity market names tied to those names,
including Jaxie Copper, is up 11% the
most here in about 4 years.
>> Yeah, there's two things going on there,
right? So, copper prices is one, but
then there has been this ongoing sort of
takeover bid from the company when it
comes to SolGold. So, last week, there
were reports that SolGold rejected this
takeover proposal. What we're hearing
from the company now is that it's still
at an informal stage, that bid here. So,
that's what maybe you are seeing, but
uncertain whether the company will make
a formal offer of sole gold. Okay, let's
have a look at Japanese assets. We're
looking at that, too. In the last hour,
we heard from the governor
hawkish tone, nothing new but clearly, I
guess in in many ways very hawkish based
on some of the headlines that come
through. Before that even, the 2-year
yield opened
if I'm not mistaken, right below but
we're now trading above 1% for the first
time since 2008.
We're going to as far as we can take the
market goes. Dollar yen strengthened
following those comments dropped
following the comments coming through
out of Governor Ueda. Just to say it's a
big week as far as monetary policy is
concerned.
>> Yeah, December 19th. I have to I have to
correct myself that the next BOJ meeting
is. So, the speculation is rampant once
again. Let's bring in Ruth Carson, our
chief FX and rates correspondent on you
know, the yen popping higher in the back
of Ueda's comments as David mentioned.
How are investors positioning on the yen
here?
Yeah, absolutely. So macro driven and so
sensitive at the moment to everything
that Ueda is signaling to the markets
and how are investors reading what's
been coming out? The door is open to a
rate hike in a couple of weeks. And if
we look at what swaps are indicating, 60
odd percent chance of a hike in
December. When you look at January, that
number goes up to 90% so clearly clearly
rate hike is on according to the macro
traders out there. And what does it bode
for the yen? It's a positive. It's a
positive. We know that dollar yen has
been hovering around the 156 mark. It's
obviously broken that down now to below
156, 155 odd. And again, is there room
for this to continue?
Well, if swap markets are to be
believed, absolutely. We do see probably
a stronger yen trading ahead.
Ruth, related to the story, JGBs also
seeing some pain. I think the we we
referenced the 2-year yield now has a 1%
I don't think we've seen that in
somewhat of a let's call it a generation
or close to it at least here.
What's the what are bond investors
signaling there as far as that melt up
in yields?
Yeah, look it's echoing a similar story
that we're seeing in the yen. Rate hikes
generally good for a currency, in this
case the yen. Rate hikes generally not
so good for the fault policy sensitive
front end of curves in a country. In
this case, definitely for the 2-year JGB
yield which as you correctly pointed out
David, it is
you know, around the highest levels that
we've seen since the 2008 financial
crisis.
Again, investors are weighing whether
this has room to run and depending on
who you speak to in markets, you know,
the widow maker trade shorting JGBs has
been very very lucrative particularly
for the hedge funds out there that have
been doing you know, curve trades as
they call them. So, definitely see the
space a lot of opportunity to run.
And Ruth, there's been a lot
in terms of you know, speculation is
running on who's going to be the next
Fed chair, right? And we heard from
President Trump saying he has made his
pick on who's going to lead the Federal
Reserve. I just want to take a listen to
on the back of of course Kevin Hassett
who is
he's seen as a likely contender and what
he has to say about it.
We had a great Treasury auction.
Interest rates went down. And so, I
think that the American people could
expect President Trump to pick somebody
who's going to help them, you know, have
cheaper car loans and easier access to
mortgages at lower rates.
That's what we saw in the market
response.
Fed chair, are you any close on that
right now? I know who I'm going to pick.
Oh, TELL ME KEVIN HASSETT.
YEAH, I'M NOT TELLING YOU.
>> [laughter]
[gasps]
>> LEAVING us all kind of
hanging hanging, really. I know but I'm
not going to tell you.
Do you think that's what's attributing
to all the dollar weakness we've seen,
Ruth?
It is definitely one of the factors that
would be influencing dollar and
Treasury's trading right now. It is very
much talked about. It's hard to come
into your desk one day without someone
going, "Have you heard about who the
latest Fed chair would be?" So,
definitely an influence there. We know
that Hassett is very much a people see
him as a Trump pick. There are issues
around you know, speculation around
central bank independence
and also the rate trajectory of the US.
So, definitely a close face to watch.
Yes, it is an influencing factor on the
dollar particularly in the short term.
>> [clears throat]
>> Ruth, thank you. Ruth Carson there in
Singapore for us. Yeah, it's the quiet
period of course ahead of the the Fed
decision but when you look at pricing,
it doesn't seem that they'll need
further nudging. In fact, we priced 102%
so more than a full rate cut
coming through of course in about what
is it, 10 days or so? Right.
From that story dollar weakness across
markets on Monday,
Governor Ueda in fact I believe just
wrapping up that live speech out of
Nagoya
talking about how well, they'll move if
and when the economy tells them that
it's wise to move. That's just also to
say the weakness in the currency might
actually be adding or helping them as
far as the inflation boost is concerned.
FX could be a factor to boost inflation
according there to the BOJ governor.
Okay,
we will take a short break and we will
see you on the other side of it. This is
Bloomberg.
All right, we'll talk about those Baidu
earnings in just a bit but you take a
look at when it comes to this whole
campaign to rein in [music] price wars
and blunt deflation has really done
little to lift their quarter earnings as
Chinese stocks extend their losses into
a second month. Let's bring in Sammy
Shaw, our Asia equities reporter on what
her team has been kind of really seeing
in terms of this anti-involution
campaign.
It's not really helping all sectors it
seems at this point.
>> No, not really and it's the same
wordings that we have heard in August,
you know, the irrational competition in
the domestic market that's been weighing
down on their earnings and stock price
of course. It's the worst performing
stock among Hang Seng tech
index this year. The stock is down about
30% YTD so
it speaks for itself, right? So, the
price war that we are seeing, it's it's
really hit the peers as well. Alibaba,
JD.com, they're all hit for the
precisely same reason. There's a one pie
and everybody's trying to take share of
all this. Morningstar actually says that
Meituan from over 70% of the value that
they had in on-demand and food delivery
market, they see about [clears throat]
55%
shrinking of their market value by 2027.
And for Alibaba, they see an upgrade
from 21% to
40%. So, we're going to be seeing more
of a duopoly market in the delivery
business. Okay.
Sammy, thank you so much. Sammy Shaw
there
out of of course our Asia equities
reporter taking us through the
the last of the big earnings that come
through and maybe how we're set up for
for next year. Just brings to mind
something that Eva Lee out of UBS who
joined us about 40 minutes back
mentioned about earnings next year,
right? So,
as a group Hang Seng tech because you
have the platform companies, you have
some EVs and you have some chip makers
there because of the very low base this
year.
I think it was John, your question
around valuation re-rating and she said
it's going to be likely a 30%
improvement in earnings next year. A lot
of that is down to maybe the low base
effect. So, just keep it in mind as we
try and extrapolate
multiples and where they should be going
into
next year. On that very specific note,
that wasn't just random. Let's let's
bring in John Shaw, China tech analyst
at Barclays
joining us I believe his Sunday evening.
Thank you so much by the way, sir for
for for staying up and we appreciate the
time. Good morning from the Asia
Pacific. Nice to see you, sir. We're
done with earnings, China tech. Just
before we get granular,
any broad takeaways on on a sector
level?
Good morning. First off, thank you for
having me.
There's a a lot to talk about obviously
for for the sector for the for the
earnings.
It's often times hard to generalize
but I think the earning season has been
pretty good since the fourth quarter
last year. That being said though, we
are clearly seeing some signs of
of some headwinds ahead for 2026 and we
can go into details a bit later but just
for the earnings season itself, I think
most companies
reported pretty good earnings, right? If
you look at Tencent, Alibaba, the two
tech leaders for the for the group had a
pretty good earnings especially I would
say Tencent.
Alibaba had a very strong AI cloud
growth.
But not every single company had a great
results. For example, Meituan,
you were just talking about the company
earlier in the program. We have had a
underweight rating on the company over
the last three years for multiple
reasons. We can go into all the nuances
in terms of the competition, the outlook
for the food delivery business later on.
If you want to dig deeper in that area.
I I I think it let's go there because
you you mentioned about the nuances,
right? Some have talked about you know,
how we've seen the worst of you know,
the the price wars in the e-commerce
space. Are you seeing any signs of that
improving next year?
So, we could be both right for having
seen the worst in Q3, where Meituan lost
about, you know, roughly speaking, two
US two billion US dollars in a single
quarter, but the loss probably will only
gradually improve uh going forward. The
problem for Meituan, however, is is uh
is not so much about near term.
Because
the company used to have almost like a
monopoly position in the industry,
right? 80% market share, 25% operating
margin.
But as soon as, firstly, JD wanted to
get into the industry, get into the
business, and then Alibaba decided to
come back strong to get back its lost
market share over the last 5 years. Now,
the industry dynamic has changed
completely. Now, Alibaba has, roughly
speaking, 40-50% market share, just a
little bit of below Meituan's.
But the issue for Meituan is that
Alibaba never needs to make any money in
food delivery.
They'll be happy just to break even
because they make money from the other
core e-
e-commerce transactions from these
customers, but that's only business for
Meituan, more or less, so they have to
make their money. So, when you have a
number two player, a very close to
number two player, doesn't need to make
any money,
then you got you got a problem. Your
margin will never go back to the way it
was a couple years ago.
Okay. So,
let me just ask an open-ended question.
You you mentioned it's not a short-term
issue for Meituan, it's long-term.
Um what does the future look like for a
pure play like Meituan?
Uh and I'll leave that open-ended if how
you want to answer that question.
Sure. Thank you, David. So, we we have
always said, "Okay, what's going to stop
all the leading players to be more
rational in discounting, subsidizing,
coupon?"
We have said
the only way
these players will become more rational
is when they believe no matter what they
do, their market share will not go up.
So, then the next question becomes,
what's the equilibrium market share
among the three players? So,
this is just a scenario, doesn't have to
be this scenario.
Perhaps Meituan has 50% market share.
Alibaba has 40% market share, JD has 10%
market share. Let's Let's just assume
everybody is kind of happy with this, or
at least cannot do too much about it.
When that happens,
every player should scale back on their
discounting.
But that does not solve the fundamental
problem for Meituan. It's because even
when that stabilize,
Meituan's
profitability, or its margin, will never
go back to 25% ever.
Because, by the way, before Alibaba came
back to the market strong, Meituan made
more money than any other food delivery
company in the whole world, not just in
China. So, Meituan's probably
over-earned
in the food delivery business
until last year or or until early this
year, rather.
But even in an equilibrium state, again,
Meituan's ability to make money
is structurally
um
lowered.
Yeah.
And and whether there are still the
remaining moats to to their business, uh
that's going to be a key question longer
term, John Shaw, as you mentioned. I
want to get your take on on the whole
Alibaba story though, because as you
mentioned, right? Alibaba doesn't need
to make money in food delivery
to do what to do well, because you have
all this, you know, AI full stack sort
of capabilities that that the company
has with this new twin app now.
Is [snorts] Is that going to be
continued the case where investors can
kind of look past weak earnings and
really just focus on the AI potential
around Alibaba and some of these big big
tech names?
Well, for the time being, for sure,
right? Alibaba CEO said on their public
call,
they simply do not see
that there is a AI bubble for the next
couple years
from the pipeline they have, which which
probably is is true. Now, that being
said,
globally, there's ongoing debate about
whether or not we which inning, using
sort of baseball term, which inning are
we in a potential AI bubble?
And And And I think
for me, who
personally went through the dot-com
bubble back in the days, it
at the end of the day,
the success and adoption of AI industry,
or any industry, is really
depending on two groups, enterprises and
consumers. End of story. There's no
third group you can think of. They do
not exist, right?
But for enterprises,
you they need to move beyond the initial
piloting, trialing, and play around.
They really need to adopt AI as part of
the business processes. As as we all
know, China hasn't had a software
industry or a big software industry, per
se, or enterprise software in
particular, or SaaS industry. So, it's
not an easy task to convince these
enterprises to give you the money to buy
your product to help their business
processes. They might
as well go and hire another 100
engineers to do what the AI does for it.
For the consumer, same thing. In China,
it's
Mhm. impossible to charge consumers for
a fee for a running app like a ChatGPT.
You pay them 20 bucks, 30 bucks, 50
bucks, depends on which version. And And
that market exist in America, but it
probably doesn't exist in China. So,
they need to address that problem. If
not in 2026, it need to be addressed in
2027 before we all get a super excited
about AI.
Mhm. Yeah.
John Shaw, you're you're you being in
New York puts is is I would say the the
best position to look at both sides of
the tech argument. And a lot of people
that we talk to talk about how China's
pursuing this different model
for AI. And well, I guess my question
for you is the concept of hyperscalers.
Do you think that exists in China? And
do you think we will get or we should
get the same amount of eye- popping
CapEx we're getting out of some of the
US companies? Do you think that's in the
future for Chinese tech? Or is it going
to be different? Or is that not in the
future because they're pursuing a
different model?
Right. If you look at a very high level,
no doubt,
US and China are two world superpowers
in AI, of course, in other things as
well, but in AI in particular.
But there will be some differences.
We at Barclays, we we we don't think the
hyperscaler model
works
in China in particular. Actually, for
the exact reason I just mentioned.
You know, the reason they are
hyperscalers here in the US
is because US has always had a very
large enterprise software industry. And
then later on has had a very large SaaS
software as a service industry, right?
You have a Salesforce
um uh running and many other uh
enterprise SaaS software running on
these hyperscalers.
But they're on the other side of the
ocean, China never has had a software or
SaaS. So, there wasn't really no need
for hyperscalers, right? Before China
needs to have a hyperscaler or
hyperscaler industry, they really need
to have the enterprises, big and small,
to adopt AI, to start. And I think that
would be the first bottleneck or
challenge for for the Chinese AI players
to to overcome. So, I doubt you're going
to see this
hundred billion dollars, 50 billion
dollars annual CapEx number from any of
these
Chinese internet companies. In In fact,
as you may recall,
in Tencent's three Q results, their
CapEx was actually slightly lower than
expected, and was lower than even a year
ago.
Mhm.
Um John Shaw, before we go, just given
your coverage, tell us some more What
What are the top picks then around the
AI story? How do we position moving on
from here?
Um
So, there are several key players uh for
AI in in the US, as as you guys know.
Some are private companies like OpenAI
and Stability AI, uh but there are
public companies such as Google, seems
to have come from behind now, is really
really making strides. But in China, in
in our view,
Alibaba, without a doubt, is the largest
AI player uh with a full stack um going
from um
consumer end and to the variety of the
models.
I think Chinese enterprises, there's one
thing works for them to adopt AI
vis-a-vis the US enterprises because
the cost is much much lower in China
than in the US. In fact, it's our
average Wait. reading a bunch of the
report, 90% lower.
And And Chinese electricity, uh by the
way, that's a key bottleneck for any
kind of AI builder, is much lower Right.
widely available. So, China has that
advantage working for them, but the
disadvantage, as I said, it it hasn't
had a a SaaS and and a software
industry, but
beyond AI, actually, you were talking
about auto of our 2026. We think the
biggest the issue we may be facing in
2026 for all the tech companies and
maybe for a lot of other companies as
well is that in 2025
we have had
the government subsidies, right? The
trading subsidies and all the other tax
breaks they're getting.
Even if you
renew that for 2026, you no longer have
that bump up effect anymore. So, we
already start to see companies like JD
and Xiaomi start to the show some
weakness in the 3Q results because of
that lapping effect.
Jun Shao, fantastic. Thank you so much
for joining us. Please let us know next
time you're here in the region. Jun Shao
there, China tech analyst at Barclays
joining us out of New York this evening.
We'll leave you with a look at how
markets are doing here right now. Take a
look at what it comes to gains there.
We're off some of the initial highs when
it comes to the Hang Seng, but we're up
a still about 165 points as well. H is
tech catching a slight bit here this
morning. The CSI 300 also up about 15.
This is Bloomberg.
All right, a brief preview of some key
events. Obviously not a
>> [music]
>> fully exhaustive list
of things to watch. If I had to pick a
couple of things out, we'll talk about
trade in a moment. Also decent numbers
there.
You have of course PC on Friday and of
course given all the moves we're seeing
in the JGB market, you have two key
options there. You have a 10 [music]
on Tuesday and you have a 30-year yield
coming through
on Thursday as well. Apart from that,
rate decisions RBI and of course the
Fed's not included, but we'll talk more
about the Fed shortly over the coming
days or so as we approach that one. Uh
and so in terms of data front, that's
certainly front and center here today.
Of course, when it came to Asia, I think
that the export side of things [music]
in Korea still looked pretty strong, but
it really was the PMI data out of China
over the weekend and this morning from
the [music] private gauge rating dog,
all signaling contraction, right? So,
49.2 for manufacturing there. It's an
eight straight month of contraction.
That is a record losing [music] streak
there and the private gauge also sub 50,
Dave. Yeah, rating dog coming in quite a
big miss to sub 50 and of course Asian
data to also coming out this morning.
A whole slew of numbers coming through
out of Japan and also others. Do we have
the graphic? I promise you we'll show
you them. Oh, here we go.
This
is Bloomberg.
Well, Hong Kong is mourning the victims
of the city's deadliest fire in almost
80 years. This was a scene on Sunday
outside the park
>> [music]
>> next to Wang Fat Car Park in the New
Territories town of Tai Po. At least 146
people were killed in the fire. Hong
Kong officials held 3 minutes of silence
for the victims on Saturday. Condolence
points have been set up in all of the
city's 18 districts for members of the
public to sign books and pay their
respect to the victims and survivors.
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
Please rise
and join me
>> [music]
>> a minute of silence.
And veteran Hong Kong actor Chow Yun-fat
also held a moment of silence for the
victims at the 2025 Mama Awards ceremony
here in Hong Kong. The music awards
ceremony went ahead, but organizers
canceled the earlier red carpet event
out of consideration for those affected
by the fire, but it was certainly a very
touching moment for those that were
within there. Touching and trying to
underscore the challenging
last few days we've had going into a
weekend we're continuing to be
to be on top of the story here. Let's
let's bring in our team here on set with
us in Hong Kong. Minmin Low, our China
correspondent alongside our Bloomberg
Intelligence senior analyst Steven Lam.
Minmin, let's let's let's start with
you. Why don't you get us started here?
Yeah, I think the weekend just gave us a
bit of time to digest what happened and
there has been an outpouring of grief,
an outpouring of support. You look at
the special fund that the government has
set up. Initially, the government put in
300 million Hong Kong dollars. It has
now ballooned to about 1.2 billion Hong
Kong dollars. A lot of it coming from
private donations from members of the
public.
And that's why now the government said
that they are increasing the amount of
living allowance that they're giving to
the victims. Initially, they are handing
out 10,000 Hong Kong dollars per family.
They are giving out an additional 50,000
Hong Kong dollars to the families as
well and they will continue to provide
longer term support. But certainly over
the weekend, we saw long queues at the
site of the fire. But I think what was
different over the weekend was that the
distribution center that I was at last
week has now been completely cleared of
volunteers because the authorities told
them to clear out. They are taking over
the operations. They are moving it
online in order to create efficiency,
but at the same time, the Office of
National Security had also issued
warnings against anyone trying to use
this fire to incite unrest and the
national security police had arrested
three people including an unnamed
volunteer
as as well as a former district
councilor Kenneth Chong and also someone
who started an online petition calling
for the government to do more for the
victims.
And it just goes to show really the
sensitivity really around this issue
right now.
Yeah, it really speaks to some of the
underlying tensions that are simmering
especially given all the changes that
Hong Kong has gone through over the past
years with the imposition of the
national security law and perhaps that
public gathering of many people, you
know, organizing different goods. There
is some fear it seems from the
government that that could spill over
into something more serious especially
when sometimes the line between grief
and anger is is not that clear, right?
And especially given that a lot of new
facts have had emerged and it seems like
there are lapses on many different
parties, not just the engineering
companies, but also it turns out that
many of these residents had put in
complaints to the Department of Labor as
early as 2024 and the Department of
Labor now says they they acknowledge
that they had mistakenly dismissed some
of these concerns. At the time they said
there were no laws governing fire safety
when it comes to the scaffolding.
Eventually, they said that the the
materials used were
in compliance were compliant with Hong
Kong rules citing the documents
submitted by the contractors. But
obviously now there is a multi-agency
task force that is now investigating the
cause of the fire. Why is it spreading
so quickly? Because there are obviously
things that shouldn't be there like the
Styrofoam boards sealing the windows,
the
tarpaulin sheets that are also
non-compliant as well.
Do we have a better sense of the
timeline authorities will need to
conduct their investigations across
these multiple fronts for us to be able
to figure out you know, who is who who
is who was responsible and maybe
separately who is who is liable too.
Yes, so the authorities told us they
would need 3 to 4 weeks to complete the
investigation, but currently they have
already arrested 11 people in
conjunction with this case including
consultants, including subcontractors
related to the scaffolding company,
including an intermediary as well.
And you know, many parties are involved
because now they are saying that the
mesh actually initially the government
said that the speed of the fire was
spreading unusually fast on the mesh.
But now they are saying with the initial
testing that actually the mesh had met
with compliance standards and it's the
Styrofoam boards.
And in one building, they found the
Styrofoam boards on every single floor
on the floors of the elevators as well.
And it when it's sealing the windows, it
really caused the windows to to shatter
and it caused the fire to move in from
the exterior of the buildings to inside
the buildings and that really sped up
the the speed of the fire as well.
Minmin, thank you, Minmin. Great
coverage and really bringing us the
latest on what's really been going on
and what's on the ground to us well.
We can't move away from the human
element to all this, but certainly we
have to talk a little bit more about
the next steps here when it comes to
really getting getting
you know, the the the when it comes to
insurance claims and the like here.
[clears throat] It's certainly going to
be a very lengthy process it seems. And
you know, when you take a look at what
Steven Lam from Bloomberg Intelligence
has written about, he says this is
really likely going to be the one of the
costliest residential fires
to the insurance industry. Let's bring
Steven in here right now.
Tell us a bit more about how well
equipped do you think these insurance
companies are in fulfilling these
claims?
Right, Yvonne, David. Um So, yeah, no
words can really describe you know, how
how severe the situation is and it is
very hard to put dollars and cents to
matters like these
tragedy.
But you know, if we look at what we have
right now
>> [clears throat]
>> financially I think it's it's very very
known that China Taiping is the lead
underwriter of the major insurance
policies that protects the building
and the contractors.
You know, the dollars and cents would be
about Hong Kong 2.6 billion. That is the
coverage that I think most media is
widely understood. Now, there's a lot of
intricacies in terms of who's liable for
what and who can claim that amount. So,
you know, to answer your first question,
the company itself is financially sound.
It's a state-owned company.
It has been around in Hong Kong and in
mainland China for very very long time.
So, we're we're very confident that um,
the
ability to make claims is definitely
there.
Another sort of reinsurance reassurance
it's relating to reinsurance um,
it's a very standard practice that every
time a direct insurer underwrites
contracts like, you know, these sort of
sum amount they would have a panel of
reinsurance companies.
Uh, it could be several and sometimes it
could be more than 10. Mhm.
So,
it it is it is going to be born by the
whole insurance market um, not just in
Hong Kong but also globally.
Okay.
But if we take a step back, yes, uh, as
a single event, you know, very
concentrated, you know, the size and
scope is just
huge because, you know, if you look at
Hong Kong typhoons like Mangkhut
um, that one cost Hong Kong about 3
billion.
And and and this is only
you know, the complex in here we're
talking about.
Yeah. Mhm. The
Yeah, I mean it's important to your
point to distinguish
who who eventually is liable for what
and you know, you look at something like
you know, several towers that were
burned.
How do we look at who is responsible for
the actual property, the asset?
Individually too, you have homeowners
needing to And it's it's a practice I'm
not sure how widespread it is in Hong
Kong to insure your own Mhm.
>> property and of course also separately
things like life insurance which is a
sep- separate thing. So, how do we look
at those two other facets? Yes, let me
break this down for for the team here
and to the to our audience.
Um, it's a very standard practice that
the owners corporation I'm talking about
private properties in here. Okay. Uh,
probably to most of the properties in
Hong Kong that they would
they would take out a policy called
property all risk. Okay. So, this is the
main coverage that for the property that
we're looking after. So, that's worth
about 2 billion Hong Kong dollars. Okay.
>> Okay. So, that would cover everything
structure-wise, common areas anything
within your unit it's not covered under
that. Mhm. Any bodily injuries, deaths
it's not covered under that. Okay. So,
for those things
if we start with the residents, you
know, who can they go after and what
not? Yeah. The coverage that they're
actually
is available for them right now from the
from the construct from contractors or
from the property it's what we call the
third-party liability.
Now, unfortunately based on our
understanding
going through [clears throat] these
contracts
that coverage is very
>> What's that contract? Just for our
viewers or
>> Right. So, this this is the policy for
the contractor all risk.
>> Mhm. Okay.
>> And then we have a copy of what the
building takes out. Right? Mhm. Every
year they would spend about 100
ish Hong Kong dollars to buy a property
all risk policy. It's a very standard
practice for for com- for property of
this size.
So, going back to your point for people,
right, the deaths and the injuries and
the post-trauma experience loss of
income and all that
that's likely going to be a long drawn
process. Now, I think
what we're grateful about is the quick
reaction of the society. That's why I'm
going back to Miming's point, the
donations is extremely important because
that's already readily available.
Now, in terms of the claim speed
I would imagine due to severity of this
incident
it's all hands on deck. The insurance
companies, the banks, the court, the
legal system
all parties will prioritize these other
claims.
I think
another [clears throat] thing to think
about is, you know, not just a
third-party liability, the contractor
also takes out something called employee
compensation and then they also have a
third-party liability policies. So,
those are the areas that the
residents will go after. Of course,
through their own life insurance policy.
I was going to say we had a conversation
about this last week.
You know, this is you know, it's an old
building, it's mostly retirees, it's
public housing in some ways. How many
people do you think about in this whole
complex are actually home insured or
actually have home insurance?
>> So, very good question. Although we
don't have the official stats in here
but based on our understanding it is a
very common practice when you take out
mortgage the bank will ask you to take
out a fire insurance.
>> Yes. So, that is worth the amount of the
mortgage.
It's very tricky because Is it mortgage
insurance too or is it different from
mortgage insurance?
>> That's basically the mortgage insurance.
>> Okay. Okay. Just to clarify terms and
concepts.
>> Right. It's essentially anything happen
to the property so that the bank can
make sure that if this person or this
family cannot afford to pay the mortgage
at least the bank is protected. Okay.
And and also protect the the mortgage
the person who lend the money borrowed
the money because they don't need to be
liable to pay back. [clears throat]
Right? So, that's one. Um, that's very
common.
Uh, the home content insurance like loss
of property, your laptops, your TVs and
what not that penetration is not high.
Mhm.
So, we're probably thinking about less
than 20% if not lower. Mhm. And and
especially uh, But this is different
from home insurance just for clarity of
context.
>> different from Home insurance, yeah.
Well, this is different from fire
insurance.
>> From fire insurance, okay.
Yeah. [clears throat] Sometimes you can
buy them as a bundle as well. Yeah. And
now of course from
I would imagine
for the life part um,
so the life insurance it's very common
that um, senior folks they buy a lot of
savings insurance, okay? So, those money
will be paid back, okay?
Unfortunately usually these savings
policy they don't have a high death
benefit.
The amount is usually a little bit
small, okay?
If you think about the pure life
protection policies that is not a common
policy that people purchase. Usually
it's attached to a investment product or
like a long-term savings products.
Steven, thank you. Thank you for that.
Um,
Steven Lam there our Bloomberg
Intelligence senior analyst and yeah, I
just to
um,
book end really it's been a terrible few
days and certainly we'll continue to
tell the story here. We'll leave you
with some live pictures uh, as Hong Kong
mourns the lives lost in the city's
deadliest fire
in almost 80 years. Live pictures here
out of Hong Kong this Monday morning.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show to recap
some earlier breaking news um, you can
read about that bottom of your screen.
So, some
Rosewood assets
could be up for sale on the back of the
broader story of the group looking to
shore up liquidity. Shares are up 6/10
of 1% for more clarity
on what we've learned let's bring in our
set to tell us exactly about what is
what what's happening.
So, we learned from sources that Henry
Cheng, the current patriarch of the
Cheng family which is the controlling
shareholder of New World is seeking to
sell properties in the family's luxury
hotel group Rosewood and we learned from
sources that uh, representatives for Mr.
Cheng have approached some companies for
a potential sale of the assets.
Um, we also understand that the
discussions were preliminary and there
could still be changes.
And tell them a bit more about the
significance of this one because they
they have attempted to divest some of
the family's assets before, right? When
you talk about K11 we've had you on the
show talking about this. But the fact
that they're even considering Rosewood,
what does that tell us? Yeah, so this is
pretty significant although um, it
remains to be seen what the Cheng family
plans to do exactly with the proceeds
for the potential sale. It comes at a
time when the family's flagship property
developer New World is facing a lot of
debt problem and uh, Rosewood Hotel
holds some of the family's highest
quality assets. For example, Rosewood
Hong Kong Hotel has just won the top
spot of the world's 50 best hotel um,
and uh, the market value of Rosewood
Hong Kong is about 15.9 billion Hong
Kong dollars according to some road show
documentations that we've seen. So, um,
uh, depending on what assets that Mr.
Cheng is seeking to sell under the
Rosewood Hotel Group um, the sale could
be pretty significant um, and the Cheng
family is also seeking other measures to
try to uh, provide extra liquidity for
New World. For example, the family is
still talking to third-party investors
uh, on a potential capital injection
into New World and the family of is also
seeking to sell a bunch of New World
assets including their investment
properties in mainland China as well as
the mega mall next to Hong Kong's
International Airport. Um, and they're
still discussing with the airport
authority
uh, about, you know, potential solutions
for the mall as well.
>> 11 Skies. I didn't I didn't mean K11.
I'm talking about 11 Skies, the airport
one. That was the big one that we've
been talking about.
>> Yes, the one we said the airport, okay.
Okay. Uh, Shirley, thank you so much.
Uh, Shir- Shirley Zhao there. Uh, just
to update you on some other corporate
news that we're tracking this morning.
So, yeah, an update of course with the
massive story on Friday this the data
center that supports the CME Group
derivatives exchange says it has
bolstered its [music] backup cooling
capacity to tackle overheating and
sparked a 10-hour outage on Friday that
boiled global markets. Cyrus One owns
the facility in suburban [music] of
Aurora that's about 80 km from Chicago
and it says stable and secure operations
have been restored with additional
redundancy added to cooling
systems.
Right, South Korean authorities are
investigating a data leak at Coupang
that exposed some 33 million accounts.
Yonhap News says the alleged hacker, a
Chinese national who previously worked
[music] at the US listed online
retailer, police began investigating
after a formal complaint from Coupang
which says it became aware of the leaks
on November 18th.
Now, Micron will reportedly spend
[music] 9.6 billion US dollars to build
a plant in western Japan making memory
chips [music] for AI applications. The
Nikkei newspaper says Micron wants to
diversify its advanced chip production
outside Taiwan and plans for shipments
from 2028. Now, the report says the
factory will make high bandwidth memory
chips, [music] a key component for
working with AI processors from the
likes of Nvidia. Well, airlines
worldwide are scrambling to update
software on the Airbus A320. This is of
course the most widely flown commercial
jet in history and carriers say they've
rushed to an emergency fix after Airbus
stunned the industry on Friday
>> calling for a so-called precautionary
fleet action. Let's get to our Asia
Global Business Managing Editor Rachel
Chang. She's with us here right now.
This really kind of sparked this kind of
frantic rush. Tell us what what's the
update now? Has everything been fixed,
resolved? It's mostly been resolved, but
indeed it was a weekend of massive
travel chaos. It was a real shock really
to the industry. It was a late night
Friday thing and essentially we had the
regulator saying you have to do this
software upgrade before the next flight.
And this is a jet that is one of the
most commonly used in the passenger
industry. The fix would affect about
6,000 aircraft and that's almost you
know over half of what Airbus supplies
to the industry overall. So, it was a
big deal. We had lots of hundreds of
cancelled flights, delayed flights. It
was really tough weekend coming out of
that US Thanksgiving holiday. Um,
luckily the fix takes mostly just a two
to three hours sort of like software
upgrade for most of these jets, but
there are about a thousand older
aircraft that will require a complete
wholesale hardware upgrade and so that
would still be ongoing right now. Um,
do we see any disruptions to that? Any
flight disruptions as a result of that?
We saw a lot of flight disruptions over
the weekend because a lot of these
airlines, you know, had to delay or
cancel a lot of these flights just to
get those fixes into play. So, luckily
this time Airbus caught it, you know,
and then it was a simple relatively
simple fix, but you know, the issue
really brings up a lot of questions
because it's it's very mysterious.
Essentially what they said was intense
solar radiation corrupted some of the
software that's used to maintain flight
controls. Now, we really don't know
anything about solar radiation and the
fact that it could really be causing a
loss of control, you know, is something
that the experts and of course
Airbus themselves are going to really be
trying to dig into over the weeks and
months and you know, it's just one of
those situations where you realize
there's so many unknowns and that could
impact so many people. On a yeah, on a
fleet that is so widely used as well.
All right, Rachel thank you for that
update there. Rachel Chang, our Asia
Global Business Managing Editor. And of
course coming up we'll be speaking to
one of the largest operators of A320s in
the world. [music] That is AirAsia CEO
Tony Fernandes speaking to Bloomberg
exclusively on Insight with [music]
Haslinda Amin.
The result actually confirmed doubts
that AI developments of China is
actually exceed people's expectation.
Like what I meant is not about capex. I
think the
US tech developments [music] clearly
telling you that is amount is not about
how much you spend. It's about [music]
about how much you eventually can
generate in terms of revenue. So, if you
look at the time lag between investments
versus monetization, China actually have
been doing better than that of US. If I
were really have to be strictly
comparing.
But the issue for Meituan is that
Alibaba never needs to make any money in
food delivery. [music]
They'll be happy just to break even
because they make money from the other
core
e-commerce transactions
>> [music]
>> from these customers, but that's the
only business for Meituan more or less,
so they have to make their money. So,
when you have a number two player,
[music]
a very close to number two player,
doesn't need to make any money,
then you got you got a problem. Your
margin will never go back to the way it
was a couple years ago.
Just some of our guests on shows this
Monday talking about tech earnings which
is a theme we're continuing to track as
we look [music] at the rally across
these markets, modest rally
going into a fresh trading week. Yeah,
it's an interesting take too from the
taking stock about, you know,
>> [music]
>> when you're talking about
anti-involution and the like, you're not
really seeing that really play out
earnings
except for the material sector, right?
There's still parts of this economy and
and in the industries where you are
still seeing [music] quite a bit of
price competition. I think e-commerce is
certainly one of them. Yeah, and we saw
that with quite actually a net loss
coming through right out of the [music]
one of the big ones as well. We'll leave
you with a look at these markets and
we'll see you all tomorrow.